---
layout: post
title: Back to Basics
image: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/samueltbentz/review/main/images/fortress.jpeg
author: Samuel
subtitle: Punish the Bad and Reward the Good
---

In the classic children's book, *Madeline*, the reader is told that the little girls attending the Parisian school were taught to "smile at the good and frown at the bad." For those familiar with the Bible, such a description brings to mind Romans 12:9, "Abhor that which is evil; cleave to that which is good." This is a command given to all Christians and yet it is also the most basic role of the civil magistrate or government.

As Coloradans uneasily watch the situation in Aurora play out, it is a helpful time to reconsider the primary duties of government. At the most foundational level, the magistrate exists "for the punishment of evildoers, and for the praise of them that do well", as it is explained in 1 Peter 2:14. This is not the only place where this principle is declared, but also in Romans 13:3-4 where Paul describes the role of rulers,
>For rulers are not a terror to good works, but to the evil. Wilt thou then not be afraid of the power? do that which is good, and thou shalt have praise of the same: For he is the minister of God to thee for good. But if thou do that which is evil, be afraid; for he beareth not the sword in vain: for he is the minister of God, a revenger to execute wrath upon him that doeth evil.

Throughout history, this has been understood as the fundamental duty of government; punish evil and promote good. The government has real, God-given authority to execute justice with the aim of preserving and promoting order. The Westminster Confession (23.1) helpfully explains this responsibility of the magistrate, that God has "armed them with the power of the sword, for the defense and encouragement of them that are good, and for the punishment of evildoers."

It is helpful to consider the situation in Aurora in light of that plain understanding of government, as it is described in the Bible. Is it good for Coloradans to have Venezuelan gangs active in Aurora? Does the government have the authority and ability to stop Venezuelan gang activity from happening? The sad reality is that while the government could lawfully intervene and end this situation, they have proven to be unwilling. Instead, the Colorado leaders of today voiced their outrage not at Venezuelan gang violence in Aurora but at a couple of street signs hung up in Denver that they perceived to be racist. If there is any indication of where the priorities of our government lies, that is a telling example. Mean words written in public demand severe outrage while actual violence and terror result in silence and dismissal. There is, however, no way for Governor Polis or Representative Jason Crow to spin this as good for Coloradans in any way. Illegal immigrant gang activity being present in our streets resonates with people in a very visceral way because it is rightly perceived as a threat. At the heart of this discussion is really a debate over what is good and what is evil. Governor Polis might agree with "smiling at the good, and frowning at the bad" but of course he has an inverse understanding of what actually is good and evil. Isaiah 5:20 plainly explains the curse of such perversity, "Woe unto them that call evil good, and good evil; that put darkness for light, and light for darkness; that put bitter for sweet, and sweet for bitter!" There are necessary and obvious political solutions but until we become the type of people who understand fundamentally what is good and what is fundamentally evil, disorder will likely continue. In light of all of this, Christians in Colorado today must be actively praying for and instructing our rulers, as we are commanded.
>I exhort therefore, that, first of all, supplications, prayers, intercessions, and giving of thanks, be made for all men; For kings, and for all that are in authority; that we may lead a quiet and peaceable life in all godliness and honesty.
> -- 1 Timothy 2:1-2
>
>I will speak of thy testimonies also before kings, and will not be ashamed.
> -- Psalm 119:46

As explained, government primarily exists to preserve order and execute justice. We are witnessing a total abdication of duty by our current rulers in Colorado. Above all, we should aim to elect rulers that work to protect their own citizens and take a real interest in their wellbeing. Last week Mayor of Denver, Mike Johnston, was on [9News with Kyle Clark](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ulz3a4_yulE) alongside Aurora Mayor, Mike Coffman. In response to the Venezuelan gang presence in Aurora, Mayor Johnston communicated his priorities and chief concerns, "The much bigger risk is a perception that all of the newcomers in the city are dangerous." Mayor Johnston made it clear that he cares more for the citizens of other countries than his own citizens in Denver. It is laughable to even say out loud that the Mayor of Denver cares more for Venezuelans than he does for the people of Denver. Pastor Rick Davis summarizes what we should expect from our magistrate when he says, "A government's job is to secure the good of its citizens/subjects. Its job is not to secure the good of all the other countries of the world or of their people." Rulers in Colorado who are committed to serving and protecting non-citizens at the expense of actual citizens are only further encouraging chaos and disorder.
